>> Scott Moss: So keeping cache in sync.
So why is the cache out of
sync in the first place?
Well, if you perform a mutation that
updates or creates a single node,
then apollo will update your cache
automatically given the mutation and
query has the same fields and id.
So what exactly does that mean?
So basically what I'm saying is
let's say this was not all pets and
there was one pet.
And this was not pets it was pet,
I dunno, just get one pet back
it's always the same pet.
And let's say this was not
create a pet it was update pet,
and this was called update pet, okay?
And let's also assume that
the pet that I'm updating
has the same ID as the pet
that I'm getting here.
When this mutation comes back, because
this mutation has access to all these
fields via the server side
allowed us to have it, and
it has the same ID as
the query that I did earlier.
That pet is gonna be updated
first automatically because
Apollo mashed them together.
It's like, you have the exact same ID
signature as one that I already have in
my store, so I'm just gonna update you.
That's happens for free.
That's why that happens.
Everybody understand that, all right?
The IDs are the same, so therefore,
it just gets replaced, and
it's the same thing.
You should use the same fields,
because whatever reason the query
needed those fields, and because
whatever the mutation's gonna return is
gonna replace whatever the query had?
You're still gonna need those fields,
so you should return the same fields.
If the query didn't need those fields,
it wouldn't have asked for them.
So if there are some fields
in there that you don't need,
then you should also exclude them from
your query and not just your mutation.
So you should also return all of the same
fields, and that's why that's important.
Okay, cool.
>> Scott Moss: If you perform a mutation
that updates a node in a list or removes
a node, you are responsible for updating
any queries referencing that list or
node and there are many ways
to do this with apollo.
So that's our example right now.
So we have a list of pets and
right now we are creating a pet.
That means that there is no ID in
our local cache that is going to be
associated with the pet
that we just created.
It's a whole new pet, there is no ID.
So there is never going to be a point
where apollo gets this back and
be like there's an ID that's already
in the cache, let me update it.
How, we just created it, there is no ID.
So it doesn't know what to do with it.
And because there's no ID,
there is no automatic update.
The next thing is well,
you might already be like well,
my mutation returns a pet type, and
the queries, this query also returns pets.
Okay, apollo still doesn't know that
you want to associate this pet that you
created with this list of
pets that you have over here.
Like how would it know that?
I mean if you did that you would have some
really crazy side effects in your app that
you wouldn't want to happen.
To be honest, that would that would
cause some issues in your app.
Cuz maybe this array of pets
only has these fields and
they're specific for this, so this new pet
that you created is not for this view,
it's for this other view.
If they just started adding all
the pets to all the arrays,
it would probably give you
side effects you didn't want.
You want control over that.
So you have to tell apollo like yeah,
I need to update my cache
to add this pet here.
Another example is, if you're deleting
something, if I had a mutation where I was
deleting something, apollo wouldn't know
how to go into a list and remove it.
It wouldn't know that like, you deleted
this thing off the server, so for
some reason I need to
go into the cache and
find a list of all the list thas
a reference and delete it all there.
It wouldn't know that,
it would have no idea.
So you would have to do
that yourself as well.
Does that make sense?
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: So
if I'm updating a pet that exists
in all pets, apollo doesn't update?
>> Scott Moss: If you're updating one
pet and it exists in all the pets,
apollo will not update any
pet in that list of pets.
>> Speaker 3: Even the ID's
would be the same?
>> Scott Moss: Even though
the IDS will be the same,
because it doesn't know that you're
interested in that list, right?
You might have many lists of
pets all throughout your app and
they all are slightly different.
It will not know which one
of those to go update.
>> Scott Moss: Automatically,
unless you gave it some hints.
So automatically it wouldn't, but in some
scenarios it will if you start giving it
hints, and
we'll talk about some of those hints.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions?
>> Speaker 4: But in this case you
said when you change that to update
pet it would update, right?
>> Scott Moss: No cuz I had
it as one pet and one pet.
>> Speaker 4: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah so
if I have multiple pets, so
if I have all these pets, and
then I was updating one
pet with the id of a pet
that was already in this array, it won't
update it unless we gave it hints.
And the hints in this case is literally
just giving it all the fields.
If you gave it all the fields,
then yeah, it'll update it, yeah.
In that case, yeah,
if you gave it all the fields, okay, cool,
because all those nodes
got normalized on Flatly.
And they all have IDs, so
the IDs matched, and then it worked.
But the fields have to be the same,
otherwise you might have errors.
So you have to have those fields there,
otherwise, it won't work.
But yes, that's only for updating, and
that's only because we had it existing
in the cache in the first place, yes.
>> Speaker 5: Does the order
of the fields matter?
>> Scott Moss: No,
orders of the fields don't matter.
These are just for you, yeah.
Any other questions on that?
>> Speaker 6: So if I'm just coding for
I just usually sometimes I mean
I don't need all of the keys,
I just need maybe two keys.
But while updating I'm updating
all of the keys of that.
Would that still update if there is
like only one query, and one mutation?
Would that still go and update it or?
>> Scott Moss: So what you update,
as far as on the server side,
what actually gets updated is irrelevant
to what is happening on the front end,
it's only what you send back.
So, even if you updated two fields,
that's fine.
As long as you send back the exact fields
that the query wants, that's good, and
they could all be the same value,
it's still gonna get replaced.
So, it doesn't matter what you updated
on the server, how many fields or
anything like that,
all of them, any of them.
As long as the ID signature matches,
it's gonna get replaced.
So, how can we keep the cache in sync,
here are a couple strategies.
So the first one is we can refetch
matching queries after a mutation.
There are some built-in helper
methods in apollo literally
called refetch to fetch more,
well fetch more is for pagination,
but you can refetch
queries after mutation.
You can do it yourself using like a single
way if youre not using hooks, but
in our case we are using hooks so
we would have to sign up to be
notified when a query changes.
In fact if you go look inside,
where's it at.
I got so many things open, there we go.
If you go look inside apollo dental.
My command button just doesn't work.
And we click on Apollo,
and we click on queries,
you'll see something called watch queries.
So these watch queries
are called watch queries for
a reason because Apollo's watching them so
they can update them things happen.
You can subscribe to this in the coding
like I too want to watch this query, and
whenever something in that query changes,
you'll get a callback that
you can do something.
So that's how you can do
a refresh if you want to like,
I need to fetch more when something
changes or something like that.
So that's, That's one thing you can do,
probably not the best way.
You can also just be like after this
mutation comes back, run this query again,
like you could do that too.
I would probably opt out of that as well.
You can use the update
method on the mutation,
which is pretty much what we're gonna do.
That's the standard approach,
it's the simplest approach,
it's the one that makes the most sense.
If you ever use something like redux or
view X or
anything like that,
it's basically the same thing.
You're gonna be writing a reducer.
The only difference is you're
gonna be writing to the cache of
the internal Apollo state, that's it.
So you rather get direct access to
the cache that we're exposing or
that we're looking at here.
>> Scott Moss: This cache.
You can direct access to this cache or
you can write to it and
you can pretty much do whatever
you want with this cache.
And you have to write to it yourself.
But how you do it, this is where it kinda
gets confusing because apollo can only
write to a cache not based
off on what you think.
It's not a key value store where you can
just be like I wanna update this pet with
this ID or just push inside the pet's
array, it doesn't work that way.
You have to update it, you have to
query the cache with graphQL and
you have to write to cache with graphQL.
>> Scott Moss: Does that make sense?
And reason that is is because that's
how graphQL knows what has what,
is through these watched queries and
stuff like that.
So if you wanna retrieve
items from the cache, and
in our example we're gonna be retrieving
all the pets from all pets array.
We wanna get all of those.
And then we wanna add a pet to it, we
gotta write it back with that same query.
Question.
>> Speaker 7: Why is that a better
solution as opposed to just
requerying the database?
Cuz what I'm understanding
is that the mutation, right?
The mutation updates the database so I get
why the front end wouldn't reflect that,
but if I manually updated the cache,
isn't there more opportunity for
things to go awry?
Like I could mess things up there,
isn't it just better to pull
it straight from the source?
If I updated the database,
just pull from the database.
>> Scott Moss: I wouldn't say
one's better or worse, it
depends on if latency is a huge deal for
you then having to make another API call,
if it takes your API two
seconds to respond for
every single API call and having to make
another one needs a different thing.
Your users waiting two more seconds or
not, versus doing something
in memory that's instant.
Yeah, I would say and
if you set everything up right,
as in your mutations return
the exact same fields.
You named your queries, you have
reference to them through variables,
updating the cache is pretty simple.
You can't mess it up as long
as you have queries and
you have the exact fields on
your mutation, it just works.
It's literally the same thing as
writing a reducer inside of redux.
Any questions on that.
>> Speaker 8: So is there other ways to
make the [INAUDIBLE] call again because
if I want it to be something on demand
like a click of a button on UI then?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah then you
would use the client directly.
So you wouldn't use the the use query,
you would just say client.query, and
you would hook that up to a button
handler, or something like that.
Don't use a hook if you want
direct control over a query.